
==Empezando con esto del Webmaking==
Antes que nada hemos de aclarar que es difícil traducir al castellano "Webmaking" esta conjunción verbal es un mix entre "la web" y "hacer", pero traducir Webmakin como la "hechura" de la web o "haciendo la web" le quita resonancia a una palabra que quiere ser una y no una construcción de palabras, en este sentido, preferimos algunas palabras dejarlas sin traducir a fin de no quitarles la significación que tiene en su idioma original. De esta manera se construirá el significado de la palabra a partir de los contenidos que en ella vayamos consignando. 

Conociendo las herramientas de  Webmaking de <br>

[https://webmaker.org/en-US/tools/#x-ray-goggles <b>X-Ray Goggles</b>]<br> 
X-Ray Googles provee una mirada interna de las páginas webs que permite a los estudiantes aprender a leer, escribir y pensar en el lenguaje de la web.<br>  

[https://thimble.webmaker.org/en-US/ <b>Thimble</b>]<br> A través de la creación de páginas web, Thimble le da a los estudiantes la oprotunidad de practicar y aplicar sus habilidades en relación al leguaje de la web, para hacer la web.<br>

[https://popcorn.webmaker.org <b>Popcorn Maker</b>]<br> 
Students become content creators by enhancing, remixing and sharing web videos.<br>

==Hacktivity Kits for Mozilla Webmaker Tools==
Each Mozilla-designed Hactivity Kit includes learning goals and outcomes, lesson plans, activities and projects, and assessment. The modular lesson plans and activities allow educators to use the kit in its entirety or customize it for their students.<br>

If you're new to teaching the web, this is a great place to start.
[http://hivenyc.org/kits.html <b>Take me to the HACTIVITY KITS!</b>]

===Contributed Hacktivity Kits===
[https://thimble.webmaker.org/p/f8c8/ Open Data Day - Memories of our City]

====Contributed Ice Breaker====
[https://docs.google.com/document/d/1onX-qvX2KtsVVCVB6vhpS8r6bQqmvfAECvhOKnw1Ees/edit?usp=sharing Webmaker Bingo]

===Hacktivity Kits Remixed===

:*[https://docs.google.com/file/d/0B0-nCNqp_Aheb0ZrSHJlaU5qMVk/edit?usp=sharing Remixing the Web: TASCasaurus After-School Curriculum] – A remix of the Hacktivity Kit by The After-School Corporation (TASC) and Hive NYC Learning Network. 

<center>''Have you used the Hactivity Kits to teach the web? Did you remix the activities to better meet your needs? Please post them here!''</center>

<br>The Hacktivity Kits for Webmaking are in prototype form. We would like to know how you work with them. Please let us know on the Discussion page! Or send your feedback to [https://lists.mozilla.org/listinfo/webmaker the Webmaker List!]

==Creating a Web Literate Planet==
Here are some primers to help you understand and create context for teaching the web.
*[http://commonspace.wordpress.com/2012/09/06/a-reading-list-for-webmakers/ A Reading List for Webmakers] by Mark Surman, Executive Director of Mozilla 

*[http://mzl.la/T4A12 Openness and the Web] –Slidedeck on the ethos of open web and how it relates to webmaking. 


==Webmaking with Youth & Students==
Here are examples of how Mozilla Webmaking Tools are being adopted and adapted by educators for in-school and out-of-school time learning.

[http://www.zythepsary.com/education/making-is-learning-chad-sansing/ How “making” can help students’ writing skills]
Video interview on project-based Learning with Chad Sansing from the Community Public Charter School in Charlottesville, Virginia.

[http://explorecreateshare.org/2013/03/18/brooklyn-explorers-follow-up-training-pase/ Creating Dynamic Web Content] 
Brooklyn Explorers Program, a partnership between Hive NYC Learning Network and Partnership for After School Education in New York City.

[http://www2.gov.bc.ca/assets/gov/topic/B125BBFA3197257535F97E315A83E564/uploads/how_to_hackathon_with_youth.pdf How to run a Hackathon for Youth] Hackathon in a Box from Open Data BC and the Ministry of Education

==Webmaker Projects==
*[http://webmaker.org/projects Mozilla Webmaker Projects] provides a wide selection of webmaking projects for webmakers of all levels to create something amazing. Each project includes an online step-by-step guide that allows students to work independently as an individual or in groups. 
* [http://maker.mozillapopcorn.org/storycamp/ Popcorn Storycamp] Popcorn Story Camp starts with a [http://maker.mozillapopcorn.org/storycamp/cinema.html six chapter toolkit] that contains videos, projects, templates, visuals and readings that will walk you through the process of creating a web native film. By the end you'll be ready to start hacking your own projects.
* [http://hivenyc.org/storycamp StoryCamp 2.0] Popcorn StoryCamp gets a facelift. This Hacktivity Kit version has 5 modules that can be done independently or in any order!
* [[Webmaker/Teach/LiteracyResources/Introduction_to_Collaborative_Webmaking | Introduction to Collaborative Webmaking]] Web Literacy is quickly becoming the fourth literacy, yet it’s often not integrated into the classroom. This sample curriculum was created to help teachers integrate Webmaking into their standards based curriculum through a project based learning method that uses the Web as it’s platform.
* [https://docs.google.com/a/zythepsary.com/document/d/1MfTj6Ntq6elmomCcJJXWuaXJCoVtqAnEi9RsgCNHHLE/edit Beginner HTML & Javascript for Teachers] and [https://docs.google.com/a/zythepsary.com/document/d/1hmf2WuoifOz8NsUgamzLYNWa--uVkmF5w-5bFy0RGuU/edit Variation of Beginner HTML & Javascript for Teachers] These sample #openschools projects "Teacher Affirmations" and "Album Cover Classroom Feedback" from [http://twitter.com/chadsansing Chad Sansing] explains basic HTML and JS to help educators get coding.

== Holding Webmaker Events ==
* [http://webmaker.org/events/guides Guide to hosting Webmaker events]

===Contributed Documents===
*[https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OMpdps0DpnXidcaRn4Uj4Er1vVwmDdyyQkzqq_W19y8/edit?usp=sharing Registration Form (including photo-permission)]
*[https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Op1ryZFzNXHhOZzdegLWgToEcamQZ0f0A4YenbszUrM/edit?usp=sharing Webmaker Certificate]

===Useful Slides===
Slides for introduce Webmaker, feel free to remix and don't forget to list back here!
* [http://www.slideshare.net/ankitgadgil/webmaker-init Webmaker init()] by by [https://reps.mozilla.org/u/ankitgadgil/ Ankit Gadgil]
* [http://www.slideshare.net/irvinfly/201304-icos-webmaker Mozilla Webmaker] by [https://reps.mozilla.org/u/irvin/ Irvin]. [https://www.dropbox.com/s/nm3ccz798jn9vtm/201304%20ICOS-Webmaker.key keynote file] release under cc:by-nc-sa. ([https://groups.google.com/d/msg/mozilla.webmaker/cHWIVgV7RBM/bwybzOomqJ0J readmore])
* [http://www.slideshare.net/sayak_sarkar/webmaker Introduction to Webmaker] at [https://reps.mozilla.org/e/mozilla-campus-konnect/ Mozilla Transposing Ideas] by [https://reps.mozilla.org/u/sayak_bugsmith/ Sayak Sarkar] (Released under cc:by-nc-sa)

==Archives of Mozilla Webmaking Resources for Educators==
Here you’ll find previous iterations of Mozilla webmaking resources for educators.

===Hackasaurus===
====What is Hackasaurus?====
Hackasaurus is an open source toolkit that helps students see and begin to play with the building blocks of the web.

* The [http://labs.toolness.com/temp/hackasaurus-pdfs/hacktivity_kit.pdf Original Hacktivity Kit].
* [https://docs.google.com/a/zythepsary.com/file/d/0B2_V1dWZySLXYzhjMzMyMDYtNTQ3Mi00NDIxLTgyYjAtYjk3MGQzNzcxMjA2/edit Professional Development with Hackasaurus] Created by Alicia Bradley, Helen Lee and Pauline Lee from the Teachers College at Columbia University this professional development curriculum uses a learner-centered approach and challenge-based learning.

====Hackasaurus in Action====
Programs, workshops and events that used Hackasaurus to teach Mozilla webmaking tools. 
* [http://p2pu.org/en/groups/get-to-know-the-hackasaurus-xray-goggles/ P2PU Challenge Get to Know the X-Ray Goggles] The XRay goggles make it easy to mash up and change any web page like magic. You can also create your own webpages to share with your friends, all within your browser.
* [http://wiki.mozilla.org/Webmakers/events/Hackjam/agendas/4dayHackasaurus MOUSE Workshops] This series of workshops will train youth to become Mozilla Youth Ambassadors (still a working title). That means that youth will learn Hackasaurus, HTML, CSS and facilitation in order to run hacking events and/or clubs. 
* [http://p2pu.org/en/groups/organize-a-hackasaurus-jam/ P2PU Challenge Organize a Hackasaurus Hackjam] In this challenge, you'll learn how to use the Hackasaurus tools, dabble with the basics of HTML and CSS, and meet new people. Then, you'll design and implement your own unique Hackasaurus Jam to share webmaking skills with others.

* [https://wiki.mozilla.org/Drumbeat/Hackasaurus/jams Jam Resources] This wiki page links out to a variety of cheatsheets and resources and contains tips and tricks on running hackjams.

* [https://wiki.mozilla.org/WebmakerSkills/Hackasaurus Hackasaurus Webmaker Skills] A wiki page that contains information on some of the different skills Hackasaurus helps develop.

* [http://www.hackasaurus.org/en-US/educators/ Hackasaurus Resources] including the original Hacktivity Kit, an introductory presentation on hacking, the Web and Hackasaurus, an IT Checklist for running a Hackasaurus Jam, and the XRay Goggles cheatsheet.

* [http://www.youpd.org/hackasaurus New Visions Challenge]  In addition to becoming empowered to become web producers and remixers,  Hacksaurus can be integrated into curriculum as a way of understanding the construction of public knowledge and perceptions about issues (e.g. science, current events, etc). This Challenge will enable you to use Hackasaurus and build a lesson integrating Hackasaurus for your students.

====Prototypes of Hackasaurus Learning Activities====
* [http://toolness.github.com/hackasaurus-parable/navigator-badge/ Browser Basics Navigation] We noticed at many hack jams, especially those with younger kids, that many folks are not very proficient at navigating the Web. Further, there are some "computer basics", such as being able to use copy/paste habitually, that greatly limit their ability to create Web content, at least given current tools. While we don't have any materials that explicitly teach this stuff--it can be particularly hard because this varies between OS and browser vendor--we do have this Navigator Badge challenge. 
* [http://toolness.github.com/hackasaurus-parable/ Browser Basics Copy/Paste] A prototype for a series of mini challenges. [https://github.com/toolness/hackasaurus-parable Read about the vision here.]
* [http://lovebomb.me Lovebomb] A fun prototype that helps a learner create their own ECard.


===Popcorn===
Popcorn makes video work like the web. We create tools and programs to help developers and authors create interactive pages that supplement video and audio with rich web content, allowing your creations to live and grow online.

===Paper Popcorn Resources===
*[https://docs.google.com/file/d/0B0ddAThp8tOXVXRlZmk3UGQ5WGc/edit?usp=sharing Robots, Ninjas, Kittens]
*[https://docs.google.com/file/d/0B0ddAThp8tOXWlJrcENZXzQwdDQ/edit?usp=sharing Paper Events & Speech Bubbles]
*[https://docs.google.com/file/d/0B0ddAThp8tOXNXVlbXpzakZvZWc/edit?usp=sharing Sample Paper Popcorn Template (Robots)]

====WikiHow Guides on Popcorn====
An excellent set of step by step guides to using the newest version of Popcorn. Contributed by the truly awesome folks in the [http://forums.wikihow.com/ WikiHow community].
* [http://www.wikihow.com/Use-Mozilla%27s-Popcorn-Maker Main article]
* [http://www.wikihow.com/Create-a-Mozilla-Persona-Account Create a Persona Account (Necessary to save)]
* [http://www.wikihow.com/Log-In-to-Mozilla-Popcorn-Maker-Using-Your-Persona-Account Log in into Popcorn]
* [http://www.wikihow.com/Add-Text-Events-to-a-Mozilla-Popcorn-Maker-Project Add Text Events]
* [http://www.wikihow.com/Add-Image-Events-to-a-Mozilla-Popcorn-Maker-Project Add Image Events]
* [http://www.wikihow.com/Add-Google-Maps-Events-to-a-Mozilla-Popcorn-Maker-Project Add Google Maps]
* [http://www.wikihow.com/Add-Twitter-Events-to-a-Mozilla-Popcorn-Maker-Project Add Twitter Events]
* [http://www.wikihow.com/Add-Wikipedia-Events-to-a-Mozilla-Popcorn-Maker-Project Add Wikipedia Events]
* [http://www.wikihow.com/Add-Popup-Events-to-a-Mozilla-Popcorn-Maker-Project Add Popup Events]
* [http://www.wikihow.com/Use-Playback-Control-Events-in-a-Mozilla-Popcorn-Maker-Project Use Playback Control Events]

====Documentation and using Popcorn.js====
* [http://mozillapopcorn.org/maker/lib/userManual.html Popcorn Maker manual]
* [http://popcornjs.org/popcorn-docs/ Popcorn.js API documentation]
* [http://popcornjs.org/documentation Popcorn.js intros]
* [http://popcornjs.org/popcorn-101 Popcorn JS 101] This example shows how to create a basic popcorn event. The results of this code will be rendered at the end of the demonstration. 
* [http://popcornjs.org/popcorn-with-youtube Popcorn JS with YouTube] This example shows how to create a basic popcorn event, using Youtube as the conductor. 
* [http://popcornjs.org/popcorn-with-vimeo Popcorn JS with Vimeo] This example shows how to create a basic popcorn event, using Vimeo as the conductor. 
* [http://popcornjs.org/googlemaps Popcorn JS with Google Maps] This example shows how to manipulate a map with popcorn. The results of the code are rendered at the end of the demonstration. 

====Popcorn in Action====
Programs, workshops and events that used Popcorn Maker to teach webmaking.
 
* [https://wiki.mozilla.org/Events/Hack_Jam/Popcorn Popcorn Hackjam] A Mozilla Hack Jam for Video Makers is a two-day event that teams up video makers with web developers. Interactive video projects are built from concept to running code over the course of the event, using open tools and collaborative design. [https://wiki.mozilla.org/images/0/01/Popcorn_hackjam.pdf Download the PDF]
* [http://tiptoes.ca/?p=568 Running a Webmaker Event (Popcorn)] An epic blogpost from educator/ReMo/Mozillian Emma Irwin that details her agenda and experience running a popcorn event.
* [https://etherpad.mozilla.org/Festival2011-3Dfiles 3D design challenges from the 2011 Mozilla Festival]
* [http://toolness.github.com/instapoppin/ Instapoppin] Making Popcorn With Just HTML and CSS
* [http://blog.jenniferproctor.com/popcorn-maker-for-film-studies/ Popcorn Maker for Film Studies]

===Open News===
* [http://archive.p2pu.org/general/open-journalism-open-web Open Journalism and the Open Web] An archived, six-week online curriculum that will benefit both "hacks" and hackers (that's journalists & programmers, in plain English). Each week the course focused on a different topic, and each week the participants were joined by a different subject-matter expert (or two) from the field of news innovation. 
* [https://www.drumbeat.org/en-US/challenges/unlocking-video/ Unlocking Video] How can new web video tools transform news storytelling? This is an introduction and idea bank for video on the web.
* [https://drumbeat.org/en-US/challenges/beyond-comment-threads/ Beyond Comment Threads] How do we enable more coherent, elevated discussion on the web? How can news organizations improve the signal-to-noise ratio in public news commentary? This is an introduction and idea bank for comments on the web.
* [https://www.drumbeat.org/en-US/challenges/open-webs-killer-app/ Open Web's Killer App] What would you build on the web that actually makes news better for the people who create and read it? How would you involve the public in the news making, editing or sharing process? This is an introduction and idea bank for journalism and innovation on the web.
* [https://wiki.mozilla.org/Drumbeat/MoJo/FAQ Open News FAQs]
* [https://wiki.mozilla.org/Drumbeat/MoJo/background Background Reading for Open News]
* [http://bit.ly/wkQIC4 the Data Journalism Handbook]
* http://lernanta.p2pu.org/en/groups/knight-mozilla-learning-lab/
* [http://t.co/yuzBE3qp Openness on the Web] (Slidedeck from @cyberdees on FirefoxOS)

==Other Resources on Learning to Code==
* http://scratch.mit.edu
* http://codeacademy.com (ToS §3)
* http://khanacademy.com (by-nc-sa)
* http://www.p2pu.org
* http://www.youpd.org/
* http://www.html.net/
* http://interact.webstandards.org/curriculum/ (open content, very comprehensive, hard to implement directly unless doing a full college or university course)
* http://drtechniko.com/2012/04/21/teaching-the-how-to-train-your-robot-class/
* https://sites.google.com/site/cssi2012content (multi-week class, including 1 day JS, 2 days HTML/CSS, etc.)
* http://software-carpentry.org/
